genai_bootcamp_notes.md, before:


### kickstart
- count vectorizer, BoW, tfidf, hamming distance, cosine similarity
- word vectors
- resources:
	- https://victorzhou.com/blog/bag-of-words/
	- http://vision.stanford.edu/teaching/cs131_fall1718/files/14_notes.pdf
	- https://people.seas.harvard.edu/~madhusudan/courses/Spring2017/scribe/lect01.pdf

### meet 1 - 22/06/24
- fasttext, glove, google ngrams viewer
- counter (python lib), word2vec, cosine similarity, tsne (converting to 2d space?)
- scikit-learn nearest neighbour, spotify annoy
- optimization of nearest search: first bucketing, finding the relevant bucket, and then doing a full search in that bucket only (read: annoy)
- resources:
	- https://www.projectpro.io/article/10-nlp-techniques-every-data-scientist-should-know/415
- TF-IDF:
	- tf - term frequency, idf - inverse document frequency
	- tf: number of times a word `w` occurs in a document d. func: `tf(w,d)` where `w` is the word and `d` is the document
	- idf: first, `df` gives the occurrences of a word `w` in a corpus of N documents. func: `df(w) = num_occurrences of w in the corpus or N docs`. `idf` essentially measures the usefulness or the specificity of a word to a given document. func: `idf(w) = N / df(w)`. seems like this technique is useful for keyword extraction as well, in that it can highlight words that are important in a given document compared to the whole corpus.
	- **moral of the story**: there's just too much abstraction given by many "ready-made" models. its good to learn the foundations.
	- cosine similarity is just normalized dot product.

Commit message:

Add cbow and skipgram notes

genai_bootcamp_notes.md, after:


### kickstart
- count vectorizer, BoW, tfidf, hamming distance, cosine similarity
- word vectors
- resources:
	- https://victorzhou.com/blog/bag-of-words/
	- http://vision.stanford.edu/teaching/cs131_fall1718/files/14_notes.pdf
	- https://people.seas.harvard.edu/~madhusudan/courses/Spring2017/scribe/lect01.pdf

### meet 1 - 22/06/24
- fasttext, glove, google ngrams viewer
- counter (python lib), word2vec, cosine similarity, tsne (converting to 2d space?)
- scikit-learn nearest neighbour, spotify annoy
- optimization of nearest search: first bucketing, finding the relevant bucket, and then doing a full search in that bucket only (read: annoy)
- resources:
	- https://www.projectpro.io/article/10-nlp-techniques-every-data-scientist-should-know/415
- TF-IDF:
	- tf - term frequency, idf - inverse document frequency
	- tf: number of times a word `w` occurs in a document d. func: `tf(w,d)` where `w` is the word and `d` is the document
	- idf: first, `df` gives the occurrences of a word `w` in a corpus of N documents. func: `df(w) = num_occurrences of w in the corpus or N docs`. `idf` essentially measures the usefulness or the specificity of a word to a given document. func: `idf(w) = N / df(w)`. seems like this technique is useful for keyword extraction as well, in that it can highlight words that are important in a given document compared to the whole corpus.
	- **moral of the story**: there's just too much abstraction given by many "ready-made" models. its good to learn the foundations.
- "Efficient Estimation of Word Representations in Vector Space" by Mikolov et al. - introduced cbow and skip-gram
	- continuous bag of words (cbow): a prediction setting using a 2 layered neural network (1 input layer and 1 hidden layer and 1 softmax layer, but considered 2 layers coz the hidden layer and the softmax layers are merged. read more about hierarchical softmax - https://leimao.github.io/article/Hierarchical-Softmax/ and negative sampling - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1402.3722v1 and https://stackoverflow.com/a/41319421/15368987) for a word given some context. in the paper, the authors use 4 words as the context. in other, simpler, words, consider the example "this is fine, i am fine, said the poor dog". the model will be given "this is fine i" and "fine said the poor" as the context and will be tasked to predict "am".
	- skip gram: this is the inverse of cbow, in the sense that the model is tasked to predict the context given a word.
- cosine similarity is just normalized dot product.
